Update Blackfire docs (#2180)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: docs/src/integrations/observability/blackfire.md

---
title: "Blackfire"
description: |
  Platform.sh recommends [Blackfire.io](https://blackfire.io/) for monitoring and profiling web sites and applications. From development to test, staging and production Blackfire offers a unique blend of monitoring, often called APM, and profiling features. Blackfire supports PHP and Python.
---

{{< description >}}

{{< youtube bS4dzuzkir0 >}}

Across all of your sites and testing pipelines, get actionable reports and insights, which help you fix issues.

Blackfire grants detailed information on your code's resources consumption across Wall-Time, CPU, I/O, Memory, Network Calls, HTTP requests and SQL queries.

> In addition, it can profile your code automatically and notify you whenever your code does not comply with best practices for PHP, Python and most Open-Source framework's.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, it can profile your code automatically and notify you whenever your application does not comply with best practices for PHP, Python, and most Open-Source frameworks.
```

> Blackfire's features are especially powerful when running on Platform.sh. Watch our [full video tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bq-LFjgD6L0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blackfire features are powerful especially when running on Platform.sh. Watch our [full video tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bq-LFjgD6L0).
```

{{< note >}}
Blackfire.io is bundled in PLatform.sh subscriptions as part of the Observability Suite. Please [contact our sales department](https://platform.sh/contact/).
{{< /note >}}

## On a Grid plan or a Dedicated Generation 3 cluster

Follow [the step-by-step instructions](https://blackfire.io/docs/integrations/paas/platformsh) to enable Blackfire on your PHP or Python applications.

### On other Dedicated Infrastructure

> Open a support ticket with the Backfire Server ID, Server Token. Our support team will install it for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a support ticket with the Backfire Server ID and Server Token. Our support team will install it for you.
```

To find your server credentials navigate to your [Organizations List](https://blackfire.io/my/organizations) > Select an Organization > Select an Environment > Go to the Settings/Environment Credentials menu.

Note: make sure that [your CDN is configured](https://blackfire.io/docs/integrations/proxies/index) to let Blackfire profile the code running on your servers.

## Setting up Blackfire Monitoring

Once Blackfire is configured on your cluster, navigate to your [Organizations List](https://blackfire.io/my/organizations) > Select an Organization > Go to the Organization Monitoring Usage menu, and activate Monitoring for the required environment.

![Organization Monitoring menu](/images/integrations/blackfire/blackfire-organization-monitoring.png)
![Monitoring Activation](/images/integrations/blackfire/blackfire-monitoring-activation.png)

[Read more in the Blackfire documentation](https://blackfire.io/docs/monitoring-cookbooks/index) about:

* Configuring alerts;
* Events API;
* Monitoring third party calls;
* Monitoring consumers;
* Advanced settings.

## Testing the performance of each new deployment

> Blackfire's native integration with Platform.sh enables you to verify the performance of your code each time you deploy a branch, in production, staging or development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blackfire native integration with Platform.sh enables you to verify the performance of your application each time you deploy a branch, in production, staging or development.
```

1. [Setup the Blackfire Builds integration](https://blackfire.io/docs/integrations/paas/platformsh#builds-level-enterprise);
2. Optionally, [setup the integration with your Git provider](https://blackfire.io/docs/integrations/git/index), and get commit status updates from build reports;
3. [Write scenarios](https://blackfire.io/docs/builds-cookbooks/scenarios) to test business-critical use cases.

## Profiling

> Blackfire lets you profile code anywhere it is deployed, including on your local development machines. Via a browser extension or CLI, profile HJTTP requests, CLI scripts, Consumers and Daemons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blackfire lets you profile code anywhere it is deployed, including on your local development machines. Via a browser extension or the CLI command, profile HTTP requests, CLI scripts, Consumers and Daemons.
```

![Organization Monitoring menu](/images/integrations/blackfire/blackfire-organization-monitoring.png "0.40")
![Monitoring Activation](/images/integrations/blackfire/blackfire-monitoring-activation.png "0.40")

[Read more in the Blackfire documentation](https://blackfire.io/docs/monitoring-cookbooks/index) about:

* Configuring alerts;
* Events API;
* Monitoring third party calls;
* Monitoring consumers;
* Advanced settings.

## Testing the performance of each new deployment

Blackfire's native integration with Platform.sh enables you to verify the performance of your application each time you deploy a branch, in production, staging or development.

1. [Setup the Blackfire Builds integration](https://blackfire.io/docs/integrations/paas/platformsh#builds-level-enterprise);
2. Optionally, [setup the integration with your Git provider](https://blackfire.io/docs/integrations/git/index), and get commit status updates from build reports;
3. [Write scenarios](https://blackfire.io/docs/builds-cookbooks/scenarios) to test business-critical use cases.

## Profiling

> Blackfire lets you profile code anywhere it is deployed, including on your local development machines. Via a browser extension or the CLI command, profile HTTP requests, CLI scripts, Consumers and Daemons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blackfire lets you profile your application anywhere it is deployed, including on your local development machines. Via a browser extension or the CLI command, profile HTTP requests, CLI scripts, Consumers and Daemons.
```
